# June 22, 2025 | Remembering Where I Left Off

When a resource is scarce people find new ways to use the resource more effectively. Time becomes a very precious and 
scarce when you become a parent.

In this post, I'll offer a glimpse into how I'm trying to make the most of my time.


## Keeping my work in my head

Making my time as effective as possible is a necessity when doing research, because I don't know how long I'm going to get.
Work sessions as mother are dependent on baby sleep which is often unpredictable. I have to work quickly, but in order to do 
that I need to know what I'm working on. This brings up a major hurdle to maximizing time: context switching. If I take the 
first 10-15 minutes of my work sessions remembering where I left off that's wasted time, I could've used to accomplish something.

Some advice a professor gave me was "Keep your work in your head". When you stop working, remember about what you just 
worked on and what you need to do next. Prepare your mind before your start your next work session so you can restart as 
fast as possible.

This is how I've been putting this advice into practice


### Dev Journals

Before going to bed I usually make a quick list of my tasks for the next day. When I start working the next day I reference the task list
and write in more detail about what work I need to accomplish and how I'm going to do it. As I work I record any random thoughts or ideas 
that come to mind. This helps me stay focused on the task at hand and avoid getting distracted.

I got the idea from the book The Pragmatic Programmer
While reading the  I learned about engineering Daybook. The authors suggest keeping a journal
about your code projects and work sessions. 


