---
title: "PhD Mom"
date: "2023-09-15"
author: "Mia McGuire"
tags: ["React", "JavaScript", "Hooks", "Frontend"]
category: "Story"
excerpt: "Why I decided to get a PhD"
featured: true
readTime: 5
image: "images/blog/react-hooks-cover.jpg"
---


# May 25 2025 | Why a PhD?

5/25/25 is a pretty cool date. So why not make today my first blog post. I have no idea if this will be a short phase 
or a long-term endeavor, but I love trying and learning new things so here I am.

To start, I'm a young mom with a baby under 1 year old. I recently graduated with my bachelors alongside my husband and I 
decided to get a PhD. I didn't start off here though. My career path has been a long work in progress. 

When I was 12 years old, I started making Lego stop-motion videos. I loved seeing the minifigures and bricks come to life. 
My goal was to work at Pixar and after doing some research I learned that Brigham Young University (BYU) had an animation 
program that many Pixar employees had attended. It looked like the perfect match however it had limited enrollment, only 
accepting 30-35 applicants each year. So, I met with Brent Adams, the program's founder, to find out what it would take to be 
admitted. He told me that in animation, you get to create entire worlds, which requires a wide range of knowledge. He 
recommended that I study a bit of everything—art, creative writing, theater, film, and even physics. Throughout junior 
high and high school, I did my best to follow his advice, planning my classes based on his suggestions and soaking up as 
much knowledge as I could.

As I approached my senior year of high school, I had two choices for my college application: the BFA in Animation or the 
BS in Computer Science with an Emphasis in Animation. I had strong art skills, but I knew I would need a backup if my 
skills were not competitive enough. So, I enrolled in my first programming class to give myself another option. 
Unexpectedly, I fell in love with coding, and what I had intended as a fallback soon became my central focus.

I excelled in my first set of computer science classes, and then, in April 2020, I received an email saying, “Mia, we are 
pleased to inform you that the Computer Science Department has admitted you into the Computer Science Animation Emphasis.” 
Years of planning and hard work had paid off — I was on track for my dream job as an animator, or so I thought.

During my first couple years of college, I worked as a teaching assistant for various computer science classes. I taught 
weekly recitation sessions for each class, including BYU’s introductory Computer Science course (CS 111), where I led 10-15 
students per session. One week, I taught a session on recursion. At the beginning of class, several students mentioned 
that the professor’s lecture had been confusing and difficult to follow. At the end of my class, two students approached 
me, saying that my explanation had cleared up their confusion. They appreciated my simple teaching style and felt prepared 
to attempt the homework. This feedback inspired me to push my teaching skills. I made it my mission to break down complex 
topics into simple analogies, diagrams, or definitions to ease the learning curve for my students. I discovered 
that small adjustments to traditional explanations could significantly enhance comprehension. This experience 
was incredibly fulfilling and sparked my interest in computer science education.

I was then introduced to research developing a TA chatbot that can assist students without revealing final 
solutions to assignments. This project led to another where I studied how AI can predict student comprehension 
based on video and audio recordings of lectures. Currently, I am developing a mobile app to help young adults 
on the autism spectrum learn to use social media safely. The app is designed to gamify social media lessons 
into a self-paced course.

For a time, I was unsure how to unite my passion for animation with my research interests.


----Edit next paragraphs for blog post story---

I was living in so many different worlds: animation, teaching, research, programming. I admit I felt inadequate in all of them.



However, working on 
my current project in BYU’s HCI lab has shown me how well my animation skills complement my research. I love 
blending artistic creativity with technical expertise. I create mockups in Figma and then prototype them using 
Flutter and Dart. Collaborating with other student researchers, I evaluate color palettes, fonts, button layouts, 
and necessary customizations to improve accessibility for autistic adults. I also like the design challenge of 
tailoring the app to meet the diverse needs of the autistic community. For example, many autistic users are easily 
overstimulated, so the app needs to be minimalistic in both function and aesthetics. From this project, I was the first 
author of a poster submitted to the International Society for Autism Research (INSAR) conference. I was also awarded the 
Student Path Award by the Women Tech Council in recognition of this and other scholarly contributions.

Seeing my rough ideas transform into a real product inspired me to continue developing new technology that can 
help others. 

My long-term goal is to become a research professor, as this path will provide me with the greatest creative 
freedom as I seek to benefit society.

